# 10 Mistakes to Avoid When Writing Your Meta Descriptions

Want to get higher click-through rates, drive more targeted organic traffic, and improve conversions? Then avoid making these big meta description mistakes.
Do meta descriptions still matter in SEO?
Yes. But maybe not for the reasons you initially think of.
Because you still need meta descriptions, there are some best practices you need to follow when creating them.
We can assuredly say meta descriptions are not a crucial factor in where your content will rank in Google, but if Bing is a focus for you, they do support and give them more weight.
Regardless, we all know SEO is not just about rank.
Search engine optimization is also about:

1. Establishing authority.
2. Attracting eyeballs.
3. Engaging with a target audience via keyword-rich content.
4. Inducing some action by searchers.

Meta descriptions still very much matter as they make up and/or contribute to a significant portion of content displayed in the search engine results.
When you look at a search result, what do you see?
A URL, a clickable page title in blue, and a snippet of text (sometimes the meta description you’ve created), which hopefully provides some explanation of what you will see if/when you click.
Meta descriptions still represent an opportunity for site owners to “promote” a page and/or incorporate a call to action directly into the search results.
A meta description may include a call to action to “Click to learn/read/discover more!” or “Click to buy now!”
If you manage the website of a local business you may want to instruct your users to “Call today at xxx-xxx-xxxx…”
This can be a particularly effective strategy as the number of mobile searches continues to climb.
If someone searching on a phone sees a list of search results and yours is the only one which includes a number they can quickly call without having to search further, you have naturally increased your chances of getting the call.
According to a recent study, Google is choosing to rewrite and replace meta descriptions upwards of 70% of the time on results displayed on mobile devices and by a slightly lesser percentage on desktops.
However, these snippets of content generated by site owners, by Google’s own admission, are a great way to provide a summary of what a webpage is all about.
And then Google can and will decide what they want to do with this info.
30% of the time, they will use what you’ve created, so it simply makes sense to create the best meta descriptions you can.

* **Mistake 1:** Meta Descriptions Which Are Too Long
* **Mistake 2:** Meta Descriptions Which Are Too Short
* **Mistake 3:** Meta Description Is Inconsistent with Page Content
* **Mistake 4:** A Lack of Relevant Keywords
* **Mistake 5:** Description Duplication
